Propose Loopback-Attack text (#21)
radext-wg/draft-ietf-radext-radiusdtls-bis: draft-ietf-radext-radiusdtls-bis.md

[^refto7585]: TODO: Mabe add a reference to handling dynamic discovery (RFC7585) here too, and (as per Alans comments) that this issue is best resolved by limiting use of proxies.

### Loopback-Attack on Peers acting as Server and Client

> Radius setups that are configured to act both as client and server, typically in a proxy configuration, SHOULD implement mitigations to avoid accepting connections from itself. Wehen accepting incoming connections from any address (or a wide address range), the certificate subject or subject alternate names cannot be verified, and the trust is based on the certificate issuer or certificate OID. However in this cases, the certificate used for outgoing connections might also satisfy this trust check. Other scenarios where the identification of an outgoing connection satisfies the thrust check of an incoming one are possible, but are not enumerated here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RADIUS/(D)TLS nodes that are configured to act both as client and server, typically in a proxy configuration, may be vulnerable to attacks where an attacker mirrors back all traffic to the node.
Therefore, nodes that are capable of acting as both client and server SHOULD implement mitigations to avoid accepting connections from itself.
One example of a potentially vulnerable configuration is a setup where the RADIUS/(D)TLS server is accepting incoming connections from any address (or a wide address range).
Since the server may not be able to verify the certificate subject or subject alternate names, the trust is based on the certificate issuer or certificate OID.
However, in this case, the client certificate which the RADIUS/(D)TLS node uses for outgoing connections on the client side might also satisfy the trust check of the server side.
Other scenarios where the identification of an outgoing connection satisfies the trust check of an incoming one are possible, but are not enumerated here.
```

> Either thru misconfiguration, erroneous or spoofed dynamic discovery, or an attacker rerouting TLS packets, a proxy might thus open a connection to itself, creating a loop. Such attacks have been described for TLS-PSK [selfie], dubbed a selfie-attack, but are much broader in the Radius/(D)TLS case. In particular, as descibed above, they also applie to certificate based authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Either through misconfiguration, erroneous or spoofed dynamic discovery, or an attacker rerouting TLS packets, a proxy might thus open a connection to itself, creating a loop.
Such attacks have been described for TLS-PSK [selfie], dubbed a selfie-attack, but are much broader in the Radius/(D)TLS case. In particular, as described above, they also apply to certificate based authentication.
```

The link to `[selfie]` has not been provided. This should be included in the references.

> Implementations SHOULD therefore detect connections from itself, and reject them. There is currently no detection method that works universally for all use-cases and TLS implementations. Some possible detection methods are listed below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implementations SHOULD therefore detect connections from itself, and reject them.
There is currently no detection method that works universally for all use-cases and TLS implementations.
Some possible detection methods are listed below:

```

(always add an empty line between text and item lists. the markdown parser does not recognize the itemized list as such otherwise.

- Comparing client or server random used in the TLS handshake. While this is a very effective method, it requires access to values which normally private to the TLS implementation.
- Sending a custom random number in an extension in the TLS client hello. Again this is verify effective, but requires extension of the TLS implementation.
- Comparing the incoming client certificate to the connections server certificate (or any other server certificate configured on the proxy). While in some scenarios this can be a valid detection method, using the same client and server certificate might still be a legitimate connection in other scenarios.

> The application layer Radius protocol also offers some loop detection, .e.g using a Proxy-State attribute, however these are not 100% reliable and are outside the scope of this document. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application layer RADIUS protocol also offers some loop detection, e.g. using a Proxy-State attribute.
However, these methods are not capable of reliably detecting and suppressing these attacks in every case and are outside the scope of this document. 
```

Other scenarios where the identification of an outgoing connection satisfies the trust check of an incoming one are possible, but are not enumerated here.

Either through misconfiguration, erroneous or spoofed dynamic discovery, or an attacker rerouting TLS packets, a proxy might thus open a connection to itself, creating a loop.
Such attacks have been described for TLS-PSK {{?RFC9257}}, dubbed a selfie-attack, but are much broader in the RADIUS/(D)TLS case. In particular, as described above, they also apply to certificate based authentication.

Implementations SHOULD therefore detect connections from itself, and reject them.
There is currently no detection method that works universally for all use-cases and TLS implementations.
Some possible detection methods are listed below:

- Comparing client or server random used in the TLS handshake. While this is a very effective method, it requires access to values which normally private to the TLS implementation.
- Sending a custom random number in an extension in the TLS client hello. Again this is verify effective, but requires extension of the TLS implementation.

> - Comparing the incoming client certificate to the connections server certificate (or any other server certificate configured on the proxy). While in some scenarios this can be a valid detection method, using the same client and server certificate might still be a legitimate connection in other scenarios.

Reviewer: I don't really understand what this means.
The scenario I had in mind here was the following (can be either from the client or the server side, I'll make an example for the client side):
* Client connects
* Server sends server certificate
* Client checks if the server certificate is equal to any server certificate that it would send itself

There should be no mixing of client and server certificates, because a scenario where the same cert is used as client and server cert is possible, but not what we are trying to solve here.
It is perfectly fine to have two separate certificates (one client, one server) and with the text above, as I read it, this check would say "everything's fine" because the client cert does not match any configured server certs.

```suggestion
- Comparing the incoming server certificate to all server certificates configured on the proxy. While in some scenarios this can be a valid detection method, using the same server certificate on multiple servers might still be a legitimate connection in scenarios where these servers are interconnected.
```

The application layer RADIUS protocol also offers some loop detection, e.g. using a Proxy-State attribute.

> However, these methods are not capable of reliably detecting and suppressing these attacks in every case and are outside the scope of this document. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, these methods are not capable of reliably detecting and suppressing these attacks in every case and are outside the scope of this document.
```

(the automatic build complains about trailing whitespaces)
